Add reference architecture for using Kanister with Argo Workflows (#1566)
kanisterio/kanister: docs/tasks/argo.rst

Leveraging ActionSet Creation using Argo Cron Workflows
------------------------------------------------------------

Argo Workflows enable us to schedule operations. In the Kanister project,
Argo Cron Workflows will be used to automate the creation of ActionSets to
backup an application at regular intervals.

To summarize, ActionSets are CRDs that are used to backup or restore an application.

> The controller present in the Kanister namespace looks for ActionSets to
> execute in the given namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The controller present in the Kanister namespace looks for ActionSets and
executes them using the provided blueprint or other ActionSet.
```

Author: Done.

> In this tutorial you will schedule the creation of a backup actionset using

Reviewer: I am seeing that at some places we have used `ActionSet` but at other places we have used `actionset`. I think we should chose one and stick to that. `ActionSet` is good I think.

Author: Done.

Argo Cron Workflows.

Prerequisites
===============
- Kubernetes 1.16+
- Kanister controller version 0.80.0 installed in your cluster, let's assume in
  Namespace kanister
- Kanctl CLI installed (https://docs.kanister.io/tooling.html#install-the-tools)

Architecture
===============

.. image:: img/argo-cron-architecture.png

Steps -
===============

Step 1 - Setup Argo
``````````````````````

Download the Argo CLI from their Releases_ page.

Create a separate namespace for the Workflows.

.. code-block:: bash

  kubectl create ns argo

For this tutorial, the minimal manifest file will be used to download
Argo CRDs and setup their resources.
Download the minimal manifest file from their Examples_ page.

On downloading this yaml file, you may configure the managed namespaces
as per your use case.
You may read more about managed namespaces here - ManagedNamespaces_

In this tutorial, the minimal manifest will be used as it is.

.. code-block:: bash

  kubectl apply -f quick-start-minimal.yaml -n argo

> Port-forward to view the Argo UI:

Reviewer: I think we should make this 

```
Use ``port-forward`` to forward a local port to the argo-server pod's port to view the Argo UI:
```

Author: Done.

.. code-block:: bash

>   kubectl -n argo port-forward deployment/argo-server 2746:2746

Reviewer: Do we not have a service at this point, if there is  a service, we should port-forward to service.

Author: Didn't quite get this. I'm following the Argo official doc here to view their UI.

Reviewer: ok, no problem. So when we try to expose an application (pod) we create a service. And then port-forward to that service. But if its from their official documentation it's ok.

Open a web browser and navigate to ``localhost:2746``

.. image:: img/argo-default-ui.png

Step 2 - Setup a sample application to backup.
``````````````````````````````````````````````````

Here, you will reference the MySQL_ example from Kanister.
Install the Chart and setup MySQL in the ``mysql-test`` namespace.
Make sure that the application is integrated with Kanister and the following

> steps are completed.

Reviewer: I think we should form proper sentences here, if possible, instead of bullet point sentences. For example.

We are going see how we can backup MySQL application by creating backup ActionSet. The details about the application can also be found in examples[link].

Author: I was trying to do 2 things here -
1. Avoid using pronouns like "We" as mentioned [here](https://github.com/kanisterio/kanister/blob/0c3c45d2d6a82b24169f85ebd0b7de164a754f2a/docs/README.md) 
2. Instruct the user to go to the link and follow the steps mentioned specifically as "Install the chart" and "Integrating with Kanister". Which is why the specific instruction to reference the document.

Reviewer: I think in that case we can specifically mention that Setup MySQL application by going to this link and following those two points.

Author: Yes I was intending to do that but what if the MySQL documentation changes. Which is why I mentioned it in general.

Author: Done.

1. A Profile CR is created for the ``mysql-test`` namespace.
2. A MySQL blueprint is created in the ``kanister`` namespace.
3. Check the name of the blueprint, stateful set, profile and
   secrets for you application for the next step.

Step 3 - Creating a Cron Workflow
````````````````````````````````````````````

Now a Cron Workflow will be created that will automate the creation of an actionset
to backup our MySQL application. You will need to modify the names of the blueprint,
stateful set, profile and secrets as per the ones you have created.
Modify the last line of the following yaml file as follows.

.. code-block:: bash

  kanctl create actionset --action backup --namespace kanister --blueprint [YOUR_BLUEPRINT_NAME] --statefulset [YOUR_STATEFULSET] --profile [YOUR_PROFILE_NAME] --secrets [YOUR_SECRETS_NAME]

> 

Reviewer: I think instead of mentioning this command separately we can directly mention this in the CronWorkflow manifest.

Author: I wanted to keep the difference between following the MySQL example and using their own configuration. If the MySQL example is followed word-by-word, only the name of the Profile will change. The rest of the command remains same. Replacing this will also create confusion as to where each of these resources is located because we mention namespace/resource-name for some of the resources.

Reviewer: so, in the above command they still have to specify the namespace and then statefulname and similalry for secret and profile, right?

Author: If they do not follow the example, yes. But from what I have heard, the creation of an ActionSet can be even more customizable. So the number and type of arguments passed can be different.

Author: Done.

Then execute -

.. code-block:: bash

  cat<<EOF >> mysql-cron-wf.yaml
  apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
  kind: CronWorkflow
  metadata:
    name: mysql-cron-wf
  spec:
    schedule: "*/5 * * * *"
    concurrencyPolicy: "Replace"
    workflowSpec:
      entrypoint: automate-actionset
      templates:
        - name: automate-actionset
          container:
            image: ghcr.io/kanisterio/kanister-tools:v9.99.9-dev
            command:
              - /bin/bash
              - -c
              - |
                microdnf install tar
                curl -LO https://github.com/kanisterio/kanister/releases/download/0.80.0/kanister_0.80.0_linux_amd64.tar.gz
                tar -C /usr/local/bin -xvf kanister_0.80.0_linux_amd64.tar.gz
                kanctl create actionset --action backup --namespace kanister --blueprint mysql-blueprint --statefulset mysql-test/mysql-release --profile mysql-test/s3-profile-gd4kx --secrets mysql=mysql-test/mysql-release
  EOF

Note - Here, the cron-job is scheduled to run every 5 minutes. You may schedule

> it to run as per your requirements.

Reviewer: Can we use the way .rst recommends us to specify notes.

Reviewer: we should also specify what does it mean to run the job every 5 minutes.
We should clarify that it means the actionset is going to get created every 5 minutes, that would result in backup being done every 5 minutes.
Maybe better version of above statement.

Author: Done.

Step 4 - Granting RBAC permissions.
````````````````````````````````````````````

Next, you will grant the Service Account in our ``argo`` namespace to access resources
in the ``kanister`` and ``mysql-test`` namespace. This is required to create CRs based on
the Secrets and StatefulSets that you provided in our previous step.
You may read more about RBAC authorization here - RBAC_.

1. Create a ClusterRole named ``cron-wf-manager`` having the permissions in
   ``cluster-admin``.
2. Grant these permissions to the default ServiceAccount named
   ``default`` in the ``argo`` namespace.
3. This will be done by creating a RoleBinding in the ``kanister``
   and ``mysql-test`` namespaces.

Execute the following -

> 

Reviewer: did we miss the step to create the `clusterrole`?

Author: No. The bullet points above explain what is happening in the single command.

Reviewer: for these three points can we mention the command inline. Means, a bullet point and then command.

Author: You mean parts of the command? They have been highlighted in the bullet points itself so it would be repetitive.  And for further reference, I have provided the link to the K8s RBAC documentation.

Author: Done.

.. code-block:: bash

  kubectl create rolebinding cron-wf-manager --clusterrole=cluster-admin --serviceaccount=argo:default -n kanister

.. code-block:: bash

  kubectl create rolebinding cron-wf-manager --clusterrole=cluster-admin --serviceaccount=argo:default -n mysql-test

Step 5 - Launching the Cron Workflow
````````````````````````````````````````````

> Lets launch the workflow in the ``argo`` namespace by running -

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's launch the workflow in the ``argo`` namespace by running -
```

Author: Done.

.. code-block:: bash

  argo cron create mysql-cron-wf.yaml -n argo

Check if the workflow was created by running -

.. code-block:: bash

  argo cron list -n argo

> When the workflow runs, check if the ActionSet was created in the ``kanister`` namespace -

Reviewer: I have also seen `-` at the end of lines. I don't think we use then in our docs.

Author: Done.

.. code-block:: bash

  kubectl get actionsets.cr.kanister.io -n kanister

> .. image:: img/argo-cron-created.png

Reviewer: I think instead of having these commands' outputs as images, we should have them as code blocks here.
Also make sure that your machines' details are not in the output.

Author: Done.

> Here, the workflow was created and scheduled to run in 1 minute. After it ran

Reviewer: At some place I think we said that we are going to run the workflow every 5 minutes. Here we are saying 1 minutes. is it correct?
Also, we should specify what is the difference between `argo cron create` and `argo cron submit`.

Author: 1. It will run every 5 minutes but the 1st one is scheduled to run under 1 minute.
2. Their documentation doesn't mention the difference but I believe that creation simply creates the workflow object and submit puts it into action. Now there are 2 things to consider here -
      a. This is a Cron workflow which is why it began execution immediately (according to my understanding).
      b. If a workflow consisted of other workflows, so sort of like a nested set of steps, submitting is required for all of 
          them.
Considering these points I did not include the difference between create in submit.

Author: Done.

Reviewer: 1.  :+1:  Ok, can they check somehow, where this 1 minute is mentioned/configured.
2. If by just creating the workflow we are making sure that actionset are going to get created after every 5 minutes. Is there a need to submit the workflow? If not, can we just mention that there is something else that is submitting the workflow and you can read more about that following the docs.

Author: 1. Done.
2. Discussed the ambiguity in Argo docs for submit and create with Vivek.

successfully, the `last run` field was updated with the timestamp of the last run.
A backup ActionSet was created. The age of this ActionSet is seen as recently created.

Submit the Cron Workflow by running -

.. code-block:: bash

  argo submit mysql-cron-wf.yaml

> You should see the following on the Argo UI -

Reviewer: I think we should specify what are seeing o the UI.

Author: Done.

.. image:: img/argo-cron-created-ui-list.png

> On clicking on it -

Reviewer: Again, we should specify are we clicking on it to see something. what should we see.

Author: Done.

.. image:: img/argo-cron-created-ui-desc.png

Troubleshooting
===============

If the Cron Workflow does not run, check if the pod to run the workflow was
created in the ``argo`` namespace. Examine the logs of this pod.

.. code-block:: bash

  kubectl logs [NAME_OF_MYSQL_CRON_WORKFLOW_POD] -n argo

If this pod was not created, examine the logs of the Argo Workflow Controller
in the ``argo`` namespace.

.. code-block:: bash

  kubectl logs [NAME_OF_WORKFLOW_CONTROLLER] -n argo

If the logs mention that you have not granted the right permissions to the
ServiceAccounts, circle back to Step 4 and check the names of your ServiceAccounts
and namespaces.

.. code-block:: bash

  kubectl get serviceaccounts -n argo

Cleanup
===============

Delete the cron workflow by running the following. Verify the name of your
workflow before deleting it.

Verify workflow name -

.. code-block:: bash

  argo cron list -n argo

Delete workflow -

.. code-block:: bash

  argo cron delete mysql-cron-wf

Deleting the Argo CRs.

Run -

.. code-block:: bash

  kubectl delete -f quick-start-minimal.yaml

Deleting the Argo namespace -

.. code-block:: bash

  kubectl delete namespace argo

> 

Reviewer: are we using the image `docs/tasks/img/argo-actionset-created.png` somewhere? I don't see that being used.

Author: Yupp. Removing it.

Leveraging ActionSet Creation using Argo Cron Workflows

> ------------------------------------------------------------

Author: Done.
Referred [logs.rst](https://github.com/kanisterio/kanister/blob/master/docs/tasks/logs.rst) and it might require changes as well. @ihcsim

> Argo Workflows enable us to schedule operations. In the Kanister project,

Author: I think that would be incorrect English.

> Argo Workflows enable us to schedule operations. In the Kanister project,

Author: Yea makes sense.

Argo Cron Workflows will be used to automate the creation of ActionSets to

> backup an application at regular intervals.

Author: Done.

To summarize, ActionSets are CRDs that are used to backup or restore an application.
The controller present in the Kanister namespace looks for ActionSets and

> executes them using the provided Blueprint or other ActionSet.

Author: Done.

> In this tutorial you will schedule the creation of a backup ActionSet using

Author: Done.

Argo Cron Workflows.

Prerequisites
===============

> - Kubernetes 1.16+

Author: Done.

> - Kubernetes 1.16+

Author: Done.

> - Kanister controller version 0.80.0 installed in your cluster, let's assume in

Reviewer 2: We should not use a constant version of `Kanister` here as that would get updated eventually. We can just use latest keyword Or point to the link to `Kanister` Install Guide.

Author: Done.

>   Namespace kanister

Author: Done.

> - Kanctl CLI installed (https://docs.kanister.io/tooling.html#install-the-tools)

Author: Done.

Architecture
===============

.. image:: img/argo-cron-architecture.png

Steps -

> ===============

Author: Done.

Step 1 - Setup Argo

> ``````````````````````

Author: Modified the underline. Rest seems benign.

Automating ActionSet Creation using Argo Cron Workflows
**********************************************************

Argo Workflows enable us to schedule operations. In the Kanister project,
Argo Cron Workflows will be used to automate the creation of ActionSets to
execute Blueprint actions at regular intervals.

To summarize, ActionSets are CRDs that are used to execute actions
from Blueprint CRDs. The Kanister controller watches for the creation
of ActionSets and executes the specified action.

In this tutorial, you will schedule the creation of a backup ActionSet using
Argo Cron Workflows.

Prerequisites
=============

* Kubernetes ``1.20`` or higher.
* A running Kanister controller in the ``Kanister`` namespace. See :ref:`install`
* ``kanctl`` CLI installed. See Tools_.

Architecture
============

.. image:: img/argo-cron-architecture.png

Steps
=====

Step 1 - Setup Argo

> --------------------

Author: Done.

Download the Argo CLI from their Releases_ page.

Create a separate namespace for the Workflows.

.. code-block:: bash

  kubectl create ns argo

For this tutorial, the minimal manifest file will be used to download

> Argo CRDs and setup their resources.

Author: Yes I wanted to add the direct link in the `kubectl apply` command but one might have to modify the managed namespace configuration in this file to make things work. So it might be easy to debug if the file exists locally.

Download the minimal manifest file from their Examples_ page.

On downloading this yaml file, you may configure the managed namespaces
as per your use case.
You may read more about managed namespaces here - ManagedNamespaces_

In this tutorial, the minimal manifest will be used as it is.

.. code-block:: bash

  kubectl apply -f quick-start-minimal.yaml -n argo

Use ``port-forward`` to forward a local port to the argo-server pod's port to view
the Argo UI:

.. code-block:: bash

  kubectl -n argo port-forward deployment/argo-server 2746:2746

Open a web browser and navigate to ``localhost:2746``

.. image:: img/argo-default-ui.png

Step 2 - Setup a sample application to backup

> ---------------------------------------------

Reviewer 3: Only [nit] remaining - will make the tense consistent with other headings 😄

Here, you will reference the MySQL_ example from Kanister.
Install the Chart and setup MySQL in the ``mysql-test`` namespace.
Make sure that the application is integrated with Kanister and the following
steps are completed from the MySQL example.

1. A Profile CR is created for the ``mysql-test`` namespace.
2. A MySQL blueprint is created in the ``kanister`` namespace.
3. Check the name of the blueprint, stateful set, profile and

>    secrets for you application for the next step.

Author: Done.

Step 3 - Creating a Cron Workflow
---------------------------------

Now a Cron Workflow will be created that will automate the creation of an ActionSet
to backup our MySQL application. You will need to modify the names of the blueprint,
stateful set, profile and secrets as per the ones you have created.

> Modify the last line of the following yaml file as follows.

Author: Done.

.. code-block:: bash

>   kanctl create actionset --action backup --namespace kanister --blueprint [BLUEPRINT_NAME] --statefulset [NAMESPACE/STATEFULSET] --profile [NAMESPACE/PROFILE_NAME] --secrets [NAMESPACE/SECRETS_NAME]

Author: Done.

> Then execute -

Author: Done.

.. code-block:: bash

  cat<<EOF >> mysql-cron-wf.yaml
  apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
  kind: CronWorkflow
  metadata:
    name: mysql-cron-wf
  spec:
    schedule: "*/5 * * * *"
    concurrencyPolicy: "Replace"
    workflowSpec:
      entrypoint: automate-actionset
      templates:
        - name: automate-actionset
          container:

>             image: ghcr.io/kanisterio/kanister-tools:v9.99.9-dev

Author: Done.

            command:
              - /bin/bash
              - -c
              - |
                microdnf install tar
                curl -LO https://github.com/kanisterio/kanister/releases/download/0.80.0/kanister_0.80.0_linux_amd64.tar.gz

>                 tar -C /usr/local/bin -xvf kanister_0.80.0_linux_amd64.tar.gz

Author: Done.

  You may schedule it to run as per your requirements.

Step 4 - Granting RBAC permissions
----------------------------------

Next, you will grant the Service Account in our ``argo`` namespace to access resources
in the ``kanister`` and ``mysql-test`` namespace. This is required to create CRs based on
the Secrets and StatefulSets that you provided in our previous step.
You may read more about RBAC authorization here - RBAC_.

1. Create a RoleBinding named ``cron-wf-manager`` in the ``kanister`` and
   ``mysql-test`` namespaces.
2. Grant the permissions in ClusterRole ``cluster-admin`` to the
   default ServiceAccount named ``default`` in the ``argo`` namespace.

Execute the following -

.. code-block:: bash

  kubectl create rolebinding cron-wf-manager --clusterrole=cluster-admin --serviceaccount=argo:default -n kanister

.. code-block:: bash

  kubectl create rolebinding cron-wf-manager --clusterrole=cluster-admin --serviceaccount=argo:default -n mysql-test

.. note::
  It is not recommended to grant the ``cluster-admin`` privileges to the ``default``
  ServiceAccount in production. You must create a more defined RBAC to grant access for

>   allowing creation of Custom Resources (ActionSets) in the ``Kanister`` namespace.

Author: Done.

Step 5 - Launching the Cron Workflow
------------------------------------

> Let's launch the workflow in the ``argo`` namespace by running -

Author: Done.

The time can be anywhere between the first 5 minutes for you. After it ran
successfully, the `last run` field was updated with the timestamp of the last run.
A backup ActionSet was created. The age of this ActionSet is seen as recently created.

Submit the Cron Workflow by running -

.. code-block:: bash

  argo submit mysql-cron-wf.yaml

You should see the submitted workflow on the Argo UI -

.. image:: img/argo-cron-created-ui-list.png

On clicking on the workflow name, you will see its status -

.. image:: img/argo-cron-created-ui-desc.png

Troubleshooting
===============

If the Cron Workflow does not run, check if the pod to run the workflow was
created in the ``argo`` namespace. Examine the logs of this pod.

.. code-block:: bash

  kubectl logs [NAME_OF_MYSQL_CRON_WORKFLOW_POD] -n argo

If this pod was not created, examine the logs of the Argo Workflow Controller
in the ``argo`` namespace.

.. code-block:: bash

  kubectl logs [NAME_OF_WORKFLOW_CONTROLLER] -n argo

If the logs mention that you have not granted the right permissions to the
ServiceAccounts, circle back to Step 4 and check the names of your ServiceAccounts

> and namespaces.

Reviewer 3: Not sure I understand the namespaces part here. Should we specify all the commands they should run?

Author: Step 4 was changed recently and there would be a lot more items to verify than just the ServiceAccounts and namespaces. A better phrasing would be
```
If the logs mention that you have not granted the right permissions to the
ServiceAccounts, circle back to Step 4 and verify your RBAC configuration.
Your ServiceAccount should have access to the requested resources.
```

Author: The specific commands are all present in Step 4 for them to configure RBAC.
Changed this phrasing in the doc.

Reviewer 3: Sounds better now 👍🏼
